revamp readme (#21)
cryptoscope/margaret: README.md

# Margaret [![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/go.cryptoscope.co/margaret.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/go.cryptoscope.co/margaret) ![[Github Actions Tests](https://github.com/cryptoscope/margaret/actions/workflows/go.yml)](https://github.com/cryptoscope/margaret/actions/workflows/go.yml/badge.svg) [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/go.cryptoscope.co/margaret)](https://goreportcard.com/report/go.cryptoscope.co/margaret)
Margaret is [`go-ssb`](https://github.com/cryptoscope/ssb)'s [append-only](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Append-only)
log\* provider, and greatly inspired by [flumedb](https://github.com/flumedb/flumedb). Compatible with Go 1.13+.

![margaret the log lady, 1989 edition](https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/twinpeaks/images/6/68/Logladyreplacement.jpg/revision/latest/scale-to-width-down/500?cb=20160906170235)

_the project name is inspired by Twin Peaks's character [Margaret](https://twinpeaks.fandom.com/wiki/Margaret_Lanterman) aka **the
log lady**_

Margaret has the following facilities:
* an append-only log interface `.Append(interface{})`, `.Get(int64)`

> * [queries](https://github.com/cryptoscope/margaret/blob/master/qry.go) `.Query(...QuerySpec)` for retrieving ranges based on sequence numbers e.g. `Query.Gt(int64)`, or limiting the amount of data returned `.Limit(int64)` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [queries](https://godocs.io/go.cryptoscope.co/margaret#Query) `.Query(...QuerySpec)` for retrieving ranges based on sequence numbers e.g. `.Gt(int64)`, or limiting the amount of data returned `.Limit(int64)` 
```

* a variety of index mechanisms, both for categorizing log entries into buckets and for creating virtual logs (aka sublogs)

### Log storage
Margaret outputs data according to the [`offset2`](https://godocs.io/go.cryptoscope.co/margaret/offset2) format, which is inspired by (but significantly differs from) [`flumelog-offset`](https://github.com/flumedb/flumelog-offset).

In brief: margaret stores the data of _all logs_ in the three following files:
* `data` stores the actual data (with a length-prefix before each entry)
* `ofst` indexes the starting locations for each data entry in `data`
* `jrnl` an integrity checking mechanism for all three files; a checksum of sorts, [more details](https://github.com/cryptoscope/margaret/blob/master/offset2/log.go#L215)

## More details

> * multilogs, similar to leveldb indexes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* multilogs, creates virtual sublogs that map to entries in an offsetlog
```

_similar to leveldb indexes_ i think is more true for the `indexes` package, which offers a direct key-value store-like interface.

* sublogs (and rxLog/receiveLog/offsetLog and its equivalence to offset.log)
* indexes
* queries
* zeroing out written data

## Components
Margaret is one of a few components that make the [go implementation of ssb](https://github.com/cryptoscope/ssb/) tick:
* [`ssb/sbot`](https://github.com/cryptoscope/ssb/) uses margaret for storing each peer's data

> * [`luigi`](https://github.com/cryptoscope/luigi) is used by margaret to pipe data (in the form of [`muxrpc`](https://github.com/cryptoscope/go-muxrpc) responses) from connected scuttlebutt peers into storage on the local machine

Reviewer: luigi is more abstract then that. In a sense it's just an iterator abstractions with readers and writers via `interface{}`

but also it's being phased out. See https://github.com/cryptoscope/ssb/issues/48 and i also written about the problems with `interface{}` on my dev diary.

Author: removed the green plumber from being mentioned, as he seems to be on his way out anyway

rip luigi

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3862362/130610216-55abced2-af61-4bb6-8320-a6c9a7dc7cde.png)

\* margaret is technically an append-_based_ log, as there is support for

> zeroing out items in the log after they have already been written. Given

Reviewer: there is zeroing `Null(int64)` and `Replace(int64, []byte)`.

The latter I added to be able to remove content portions of supporting formats (like gabby grove and bamboo) where the header of the message should stay intact.

Reviewer: Important caveat is that when using replace, the entry has to be of the same size or smaller then the existing entry (otherwise it would cut into the next entry)

Author: added a bit about that, but left out the caveat (too detailed for a readme imo?). maybe that can be put into dev.scuttlebutt.nz?

Reviewer: no, let's just put this on the godoc function, if it's not there yet.

Reviewer: oh, i see.. since the `offsetLog` type isn't exported none of it is on the godoc page. I'll fix that.
